Alright in the section of course we
are going to take a look at Spring boot
developer tools. Now this is a huge
addition to the Spring tool set. I
remember years ago I used to be a big
Grails developer. I still like the Grails
framework. It's a basically groovy
wrapper around Spring framework and a
couple of years ago this doesn't exist and
the grails guys had those technology to
automatically recompile everything and
allow you to see your changes both on
the Java side or groovy in the Grails
case and your template changes.
Anything that you're doing for web
development. So this made your
development a lot lot faster and
having it now in regular Spring, as part
of the Spring boot developer tools, it's a
huge addition. It's a huge productivity
saver. I'm going to go through to tell you
more about the developer tools and then
we'll get into a live demo and we'll
take a look and see the stuff happen in
action. In this video, we're going to take
a look at Spring boot developer tools. So
we we add in the developer tools to the
project using the artifact Spring boot
developer dev tools. You can add this in
Maven or through Gradle and then
developer tools are automatically
disabled when you're running a packaged
application. I have for example running
Java -jar or a war or something like
that. So this allows that to be disabled
when you deploy to production. So the dev
tools are not something you want running
when you have your application deployed
in production. But for running on your
developer console that's something you
definitely want running. And by default
when we're running the Spring boot
plugins and it does the repackaging, it
will not include the developer tools jar
and the repackage which are archived. Now
one of the things that it gives us is an
automatic restart and this is actually
really cool. I like this quite a bit. What
it's going to do is trigger restart of
the Spring context when classes change
and the slick part of what they're doing
here is they're using two different
class loaders. One class loader is going
to be here your application and the
other class loader is going to be for
your project jar dependencies. So if
you think about your jar dependencies
are going to be static, those aren't
changing. So they get loaded into its own
class loader and
then you get a second class loader for
stuff that does change. And this makes
your restarts very fast because what's
going to happen is you're not bringing
up the entire world. The jars from
Spring and all the Spring's dependencies
in whatever your project needs, that's
already loaded into the class loader. So
you don't have to re-read all
that and the Spring is just restarting
the context with fresh classes from your
project. So it does happen pretty rapidly.
Now the way this is going to work in
Eclipse is it's going to get triggered with a
save action and in Eclipse, by default
it's going to compile the class. And that
when class object changes, that's
what's triggering to restart in the
developer tools. Now IntelliJ by default,
you're going to have to do a build
go to the menu build and make
project and that's what's going to
trigger it. IntelliJ does have an option
to automatically recompile the files but
for some reason it gets disabled when
you have an application running. Not
something I necessarily agree with and
in a future video, I'm going to show you
how to override this inside of IntelliJ. There's an advanced setting that you can
override that property and get IntelliJ
to work like Eclipse or when you save
the file and IntelliJ does automatic
saves, it's going to trigger a restart
for you. Now one thing that happens is by
default templates are going to be cached
when the application is running and this
is done for performance. So obviously you
don't want to be reading your
templates over and over. But the downside
of this is to see changes when you're
making a change to a template, you're
going to have to restart the container. Now developer tools by default is
going to disable template caching. So you
can see your changes right away. Now real
nice technology that's included with
developer tools is LiveReload. LiveReload
is a technology that's
automatically going to trigger a browser
refresh and the way this works is you
need a LiveReload server running and
Spring boot and developer tools is going
to include this. And then you can get a
plug-in for your browser of choice over
at livereload.com and most all the major
browsers are supported and it works
pretty
well. I've used it a lot on Chrome and
Firefox. I generally don't develop in
Safari but there is a plug-in available
for Safari as well if that is your
browser of choice. Now I'm going to jump
over to IntelliJ and give you a
demonstration of this. Now what I have is
I've got the windows resized. I have the
application running in the background. This little wheel here, that is a LiveReload
server saying that the browser is
connected and I do have this up and
running. So the first thing I want to
show you is I have a system outline here
and I'm going to change that to say
something. We'll just say 1 2 3 4 and
when I come up to build project,
we can see down here it's going to
trigger a start. So you see the Spring
context restarted and that
happened pretty darn quick. So
whenever I do a class change, I'm going
to just do it a simple change there
again and come in and build and you can
see that it's going to get picked up
here and the Spring context reloads
really quick and we're back up
and running. So you see how when you're
making changes in Spring context how
fast or how much faster you're going to
be in your production because you're not
going in and restarting
things. Now the next thing is let's take a
look at the index page and I'm going to
change the text of my recipes.
I'll just add some random text there. Now
it's a good habit to click save because
IntelliJ does do an automatic save. Eclipse,
you're always clicking save but IntelliJ
does do an automatic save for you. But
this was now saved but it's not deployed.
So what we need to do is a build here
and we're going to build the project and
that you can see no class has changed
but we automatically reloaded. So do
another change here so you can see just
how fast that happens.
Make sure I saved it first. So there's a
compile and you can see how quick that's
happening. So if you're on a dual monitor
setup you can see how quickly your
changes are going to be applied. This is
a pretty convenient thing to be having
so you can work within the Java space
and your HTML templates or your Thymeleaf
templates and see your changes right
away. That's a huge productivity saver
for you to have. Alright so let us Spring
boot developer tools. Real cool
technology. I hope you can see how that's
really going to change your development.
I use it all the time. From experience it works pretty good.
Sometimes with the refresh, something goes
wrong, so you do have to do a restart. So
just be aware of that. So as you're using
it if something funny happens just
restart the container and you're usually
fine but most of the time you can sit
there and do your development and
restart, restart, restart and it works
just fine. But every now and then if
something goes wrong and you actually
have to bounce a container and bring it
back up. But other than that, they are
a huge time saver. I highly recommend you
get in the habit of utilizing the
developer tools to speed up your
application development.